apis/sgv2-docsapi/README.md, before:

# Stargate Docs API V2

This project represents the stand-alone Docs API microservice for Stargate V2, extracted from monolithic Stargate V1 Coordinator.
The project depends on [sgv2-quarkus-common](../sgv2-quarkus-common) module, which defines general common project for all Stargate V2 APIs.

The high-level design of the application is described in the [Document API in Stargate V2 discussion](https://github.com/stargate/stargate/discussions/1742).
All issues related to the Docs API V2 are marked with the `stargate-v2` and `documents API` [labels](https://github.com/stargate/stargate/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Astargate-v2+label%3A%22documents+API%22).

##### Table of Contents
* [Concepts](#concepts)
   * [Shared concepts](#shared-concepts) 
   * [Partitioner limitations](#partitioner-limitations) 
* [Configuration properties](#configuration-properties)  
* [Development guide](#development-guide)  
   * [Running the application in dev mode](#running-the-application-in-dev-mode)
   * [Running integration tests](#running-integration-tests)
   * [Packaging and running the application](#packaging-and-running-the-application) 
   * [Creating a native executable](#creating-a-native-executable) 
   * [Creating a docker image](#creating-a-docker-image) 
* [Quarkus Extensions](#quarkus-extensions)  

## Concepts

### Shared concepts

Please read the [Stargate V2 Shared Concepts](../sgv2-quarkus-common/README.md#shared-concepts) in order to get basic concepts shared between all V2 API implementations. 

### Partitioner limitations

The Stargate Docs API V2 supports open-source Cassandra `3.11.x` and `4.0.x` lines, with a limitation of using the `Murmur3Partitioner`, `ByteOrderedPartitioner` or `OrderPreservingPartitioner` at the data store.
Other partitioners have limited support, and if used, will result in inability to properly search collections using `$or` conditions.
All other features are supported regardless of the partitioner used.
This limitation will be removed with the release of Cassandra `4.2.0`.

## Configuration properties

There are two main configuration property prefixes used, `stargate.` and `quarkus.`.

The `quarkus.` properties are defined by the Quarkus framework, and the complete list of available properties can be found on [All configuration options](https://quarkus.io/guides/all-config) page.
In addition, the related guide of each [Quarkus extension](#quarkus-extensions) used in the project, gives overview on the available config options as well.

The `stargate.` properties are defined by this project itself and by the [sgv2-quarkus-common configuration](../sgv2-quarkus-common/CONFIGURATION.md).
The properties are defined by dedicated config classes annotated with the `@ConfigMapping`.
The list of currently available properties is documented in the [Configuration Guide](CONFIGURATION.md).

## Development guide

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework.
If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its [website](https://quarkus.io/).

It's recommended that you install Quarkus CLI in order to have a better development experience.
See [CLI Tooling](https://quarkus.io/guides/cli-tooling) for more information.

Note that this project uses Java 17, please ensure that you have the target JDK installed on your system.

### Running the application in dev mode

Before being able to run the application, make sure you install the root [../apis/pom.xml](../pom.xml):
```shell script
cd ../
./mvnw install -DskipTests
```

You can run your application in dev mode that enables live coding using:
```shell script
../mvnw quarkus:dev
```

> **_NOTE:_**  Quarkus now ships with a Dev UI, which is available in dev mode only at http://localhost:8180/stargate/dev/.

#### Debugging

In development mode, Quarkus starts by default with debug mode enabled, listening to port `5005` without suspending the JVM.
You can attach the debugger at any point, the simplest option would be from IntelliJ using `Run -> Attach to Process`.

If you wish to debug from the start of the application, start with `-Ddebug=client` and create a debug configuration in a *Listen to remote JVM* mode.

See [Debugging](https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling#debugging) for more information.

### Running integration tests

> **_PREREQUISITES:_**  You need to build the coordinator docker image(s) first. In the root Stargate repo directory run:
> ```
> ../mvnw clean install -P dse -DskipTests && ./build_docker_images.sh
> ```

Integration tests are using the [Testcontainers](https://www.testcontainers.org/) library in order to set up all needed dependencies, a Stargate coordinator and a Cassandra data store. 
They are separated from the unit tests and are running as part of the `integration-test` and `verify` Maven phases:
```shell script
../mvnw integration-test
```

#### Data store selection

Depending on the active profile, integration tests will target different Cassandra version as the data store.
The available profiles are:

* `cassandra-40` (enabled by default) - runs integration tests with [Cassandra 4.0](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/4.0/index.html) as the data store
* `cassandra-311` - runs integration tests with [Cassandra 3.11](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/3.11/index.html) as the data store
* `dse-68` - runs integration tests with [DataStax Enterprise (DSE) 6.8](https://docs.datastax.com/en/dse/6.8/dse-dev/index.html) as the data store

The required profile can be activated using the `-P` option:

```shell script
../mvnw integration-test -P cassandra-311
```

#### Running from IDE

> **_PREREQUISITES:_**  You need to build the coordinator docker image(s) first and tag them with `latest` tag. In the root Stargate repo directory run:
> ```
> ../mvnw clean install -P dse -DskipTests && ./build_docker_images.sh -t latest
> ```

Running integration tests from IDE is supported out of the box.
The tests will use the Cassandra 4.0 as the data store by default.
Running a test with a different version of the data store or the Stargate coordinator, requires changing the run configuration and specifying the following system properties:

* `testing.containers.cassandra-image` - version of the Cassandra docker image to use, for example: `cassandra:4.0.3`
* `testing.containers.stargate-image` - version of the Stargate coordinator docker image to use, for example: `stargateio/coordinator-4_0:v2.0.0-ALPHA-10-SNAPSHOT` (must be V2 coordinator for the target data store)
* `testing.containers.cluster-version` - version of the cluster, for example: `4.0` (should be one of `3.11`, `4.0` or `6.8`)
* `testing.containers.cluster-dse` - optional and only needed if DSE is used

#### Skipping integration tests

You can skip the integration tests during the maven build by disabling the `int-tests` profile using the `-DskipITs` property:

```shell script
../mvnw verify -DskipITs
```

### Packaging and running the application

The application can be packaged using:
```shell script
../mvnw package
```
It produces the `quarkus-run.jar` file in the `target/quarkus-app/` directory.
Be aware that it’s not an _über-jar_ as the dependencies are copied into the `target/quarkus-app/lib/` directory.

The application is now runnable using `java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar`.

If you want to build an _über-jar_, execute the following command:
```shell script
../mvnw package -Dquarkus.package.type=uber-jar
```

The application, packaged as an _über-jar_, is now runnable using `java -jar target/*-runner.jar`.

### Creating a native executable

You can create a native executable using: 
```shell script
../mvnw package -Pnative
```

Or, if you don't have GraalVM installed, you can run the native executable build in a container using: 
```shell script
../mvnw package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

You can then execute your native executable with: `./target/sgv2-docsapi-${project.version}-runner`

If you want to learn more about building native executables, please consult [Maven tooling](https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling).

### Creating a docker image

You can create a docker image named `io.stargate/docsapi` using:
```shell script
../mvnw clean package -Dquarkus.container-image.build=true
```

Or, if you want to create a native-runnable docker image named `io.stargate/docsapi-native` using:
```shell script
../mvnw clean package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true -Dquarkus.container-image.build=true
```

If you want to learn more about building container images, please consult [Container images](https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image).

## Quarkus Extensions

This project uses various Quarkus extensions, modules that run on top of a Quarkus application.
You can list, add and remove the extensions using the `quarkus ext` command.

### `quarkus-config-yaml`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/config-yaml)

The application configuration is specified using the YAML format.
Default configuration properties are specified in the [application.yaml](src/main/resources/application.yaml) file.
The YAML configuration also support profile aware files. 
In this case, properties for a specific profile may reside in an `application-{profile}.yaml` named file.

### `quarkus-container-image-docker`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image)

The project uses Docker for building the Container images.
Properties for the docker image building are defined in the [pom.xml](pom.xml).
Note that under the hood, the generated Dockerfiles under [src/main/docker](src/main/docker) are used when building the images.
When updating the Quarkus version, the Dockerfiles must be re-generated.

### `quarkus-grpc`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/grpc)

The gRPC extension provides an easy way for consuming gRPC services, in this case the Stargate Bridge gRPC service.
The [pom.xml](pom.xml) file defines what proto files should be used for generating the stubs:

```xml
<quarkus.generate-code.grpc.scan-for-proto>io.stargate.grpc:grpc-proto</quarkus.generate-code.grpc.scan-for-proto>
```

The clients are configured using the `quarkus.grpc.clients.[client-name]` properties.
In order to pass the request context information to the Bridge, the client should be obtained using the [GrpcClients](../sgv2-quarkus-common/src/main/java/io/stargate/sgv2/api/common/grpc/GrpcClients.java) utility class.

### `quarkus-hibernate-validator`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/validation)

Enables validation of configuration, beans, REST endpoints, etc.

### `quarkus-micrometer-registry-prometheus`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/micrometer)

Enables out-of-the-box metrics collection and the Prometheus exporter.
Metrics are exported at the Prometheus default `/metrics` endpoint.
All non-application endpoints are ignored from the collection.

### `quarkus-opentelemetry-exporter-otlp`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/opentelemetry)

Enables the [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) tracing support.
In order to activate the tracing, you need to supply the OTLP gRPC endpoint using the JVM parameters `-Dquarkus.opentelemetry.tracer.exporter.otlp.enabled=true -Dquarkus.opentelemetry.tracer.exporter.otlp.endpoint=http://localhost:55680`.
The easiest way to locally collect and visualize traces is to use the [jaegertracing/opentelemetry-all-in-one](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/opentelemetry/) docker image with [in-memory](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/deployment/#badger---local-storage) storage:

```shell
docker run \
  --rm \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=badger \
  -e BADGER_EPHEMERAL=false \
  -e BADGER_DIRECTORY_VALUE=/badger/data \
  -e BADGER_DIRECTORY_KEY=/badger/key \
  -v badger:/badger \
  -p 55680:55680 \
  -p 16686:16686 \
  jaegertracing/opentelemetry-all-in-one
```

You can then visualize traces using Jaeger UI started on http://localhost:16686.

### `quarkus-resteasy-reactive`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/resteasy-reactive)

The project uses the reactive implementation of the `resteasy` to create HTTP resources.
The JSON serialization is done using the Jackson library (provided by `quarkus-resteasy-reactive-jackson` extension).
The exception handling is done using the dedicated handlers annotated with `org.jboss.resteasy.reactive.server.ServerExceptionMapper`.

By default, the application is served on port `8180`.
The root path for the non-application endpoints (health, Open API, etc.) is `/stargate`.
All configuration options for the HTTP server can be found in https://quarkus.io/guides/all-config#quarkus-vertx-http_quarkus-vertx-http-eclipse-vert.x-http.

### `quarkus-resteasy-reactive`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/resteasy-reactive)

The project uses the reactive implementation of the `resteasy` to create HTTP resources.
The exception handling is done using the dedicated handlers annotated with `org.jboss.resteasy.reactive.server.ServerExceptionMapper`.

By default, the application is served on port `8180`.
The root path for the non-application endpoints (health, Open API, etc.) is `/stargate`.
All configuration options for the HTTP server can be found in https://quarkus.io/guides/all-config#quarkus-vertx-http_quarkus-vertx-http-eclipse-vert.x-http.

### `quarkus-smallrye-health`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/smallrye-health)

The extension setups the health endpoints under `/stargate/health`.

### `quarkus-smallrye-openapi`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/openapi-swaggerui)

The OpenAPI definitions are generated and available under `/stargate/openapi` endpoint.
The [StargateDocsApi](src/main/java/io/stargate/sgv2/docsapi/StargateDocsApi.java) class defines the `@OpenAPIDefinition` annotation.
This definition defines the default *SecurityScheme* named `Token`, which expects the header based authentication with the HTTP Header `X-Cassandra-Token`.
The `info` part of the Open API definitions are set using the `quarkus.smallrye-openapi.info-` configuration properties.

The Swagger UI is available under `/swagger-ui` endpoint.
Note that Swagger UI is by default enabled in production profile and can be disabled by setting the `quarkus.swagger-ui.always-include` property to `false`.

Commit message:

Update README with notes on troubelshooting IT run failure (#2017)

apis/sgv2-docsapi/README.md, after:

# Stargate Docs API V2

This project represents the stand-alone Docs API microservice for Stargate V2, extracted from monolithic Stargate V1 Coordinator.
The project depends on [sgv2-quarkus-common](../sgv2-quarkus-common) module, which defines general common project for all Stargate V2 APIs.

The high-level design of the application is described in the [Document API in Stargate V2 discussion](https://github.com/stargate/stargate/discussions/1742).
All issues related to the Docs API V2 are marked with the `stargate-v2` and `documents API` [labels](https://github.com/stargate/stargate/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Astargate-v2+label%3A%22documents+API%22).

##### Table of Contents
* [Concepts](#concepts)
   * [Shared concepts](#shared-concepts) 
   * [Partitioner limitations](#partitioner-limitations) 
* [Configuration properties](#configuration-properties)  
* [Development guide](#development-guide)  
   * [Running the application in dev mode](#running-the-application-in-dev-mode)
   * [Running integration tests](#running-integration-tests)
   * [Packaging and running the application](#packaging-and-running-the-application) 
   * [Creating a native executable](#creating-a-native-executable) 
   * [Creating a docker image](#creating-a-docker-image) 
* [Quarkus Extensions](#quarkus-extensions)  

## Concepts

### Shared concepts

Please read the [Stargate V2 Shared Concepts](../sgv2-quarkus-common/README.md#shared-concepts) in order to get basic concepts shared between all V2 API implementations. 

### Partitioner limitations

The Stargate Docs API V2 supports open-source Cassandra `3.11.x` and `4.0.x` lines, with a limitation of using the `Murmur3Partitioner`, `ByteOrderedPartitioner` or `OrderPreservingPartitioner` at the data store.
Other partitioners have limited support, and if used, will result in inability to properly search collections using `$or` conditions.
All other features are supported regardless of the partitioner used.
This limitation will be removed with the release of Cassandra `4.2.0`.

## Configuration properties

There are two main configuration property prefixes used, `stargate.` and `quarkus.`.

The `quarkus.` properties are defined by the Quarkus framework, and the complete list of available properties can be found on [All configuration options](https://quarkus.io/guides/all-config) page.
In addition, the related guide of each [Quarkus extension](#quarkus-extensions) used in the project, gives overview on the available config options as well.

The `stargate.` properties are defined by this project itself and by the [sgv2-quarkus-common configuration](../sgv2-quarkus-common/CONFIGURATION.md).
The properties are defined by dedicated config classes annotated with the `@ConfigMapping`.
The list of currently available properties is documented in the [Configuration Guide](CONFIGURATION.md).

## Development guide

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework.
If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its [website](https://quarkus.io/).

It's recommended that you install Quarkus CLI in order to have a better development experience.
See [CLI Tooling](https://quarkus.io/guides/cli-tooling) for more information.

Note that this project uses Java 17, please ensure that you have the target JDK installed on your system.

### Running the application in dev mode

Before being able to run the application, make sure you install the root [../apis/pom.xml](../pom.xml):
```shell script
cd ../
./mvnw install -DskipTests
```

You can run your application in dev mode that enables live coding using:
```shell script
../mvnw quarkus:dev
```

> **_NOTE:_**  Quarkus now ships with a Dev UI, which is available in dev mode only at http://localhost:8180/stargate/dev/.

#### Debugging

In development mode, Quarkus starts by default with debug mode enabled, listening to port `5005` without suspending the JVM.
You can attach the debugger at any point, the simplest option would be from IntelliJ using `Run -> Attach to Process`.

If you wish to debug from the start of the application, start with `-Ddebug=client` and create a debug configuration in a *Listen to remote JVM* mode.

See [Debugging](https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling#debugging) for more information.

### Running integration tests

> **_PREREQUISITES:_**  You need to build the coordinator docker image(s) first. In the Stargate repo directory `/apis` run:
> ```
> ../mvnw clean install -P dse -DskipTests && ./build_docker_images.sh
> ```

Integration tests are using the [Testcontainers](https://www.testcontainers.org/) library in order to set up all needed dependencies, a Stargate coordinator and a Cassandra data store. 
They are separated from the unit tests and are running as part of the `integration-test` and `verify` Maven phases:
```shell script
../mvnw integration-test
```

#### Data store selection

Depending on the active profile, integration tests will target different Cassandra version as the data store.
The available profiles are:

* `cassandra-40` (enabled by default) - runs integration tests with [Cassandra 4.0](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/4.0/index.html) as the data store
* `cassandra-311` - runs integration tests with [Cassandra 3.11](https://cassandra.apache.org/doc/3.11/index.html) as the data store
* `dse-68` - runs integration tests with [DataStax Enterprise (DSE) 6.8](https://docs.datastax.com/en/dse/6.8/dse-dev/index.html) as the data store

The required profile can be activated using the `-P` option:

```shell script
../mvnw integration-test -P cassandra-311
```

#### Running from IDE

> **_PREREQUISITES:_**  You need to build the coordinator docker image(s) first. In the Stargate repo directory `/apis` run:
> ```
> ../mvnw clean install -P dse -DskipTests && ./build_docker_images.sh
> ```

Running integration tests from IDE is supported out of the box.
The tests will use the Cassandra 4.0 as the data store by default.
Running a test with a different version of the data store or the Stargate coordinator, requires changing the run configuration and specifying the following system properties:

* `testing.containers.cassandra-image` - version of the Cassandra docker image to use, for example: `cassandra:4.0.4`
* `testing.containers.stargate-image` - version of the Stargate coordinator docker image to use, for example: `stargateio/coordinator-4_0:v2.0.0-ALPHA-10-SNAPSHOT` (must be V2 coordinator for the target data store)
* `testing.containers.cluster-version` - version of the cluster, for example: `4.0` (should be one of `3.11`, `4.0` or `6.8`)
* `testing.containers.cluster-dse` - optional and only needed if DSE is used

#### Skipping integration tests

You can skip the integration tests during the maven build by disabling the `int-tests` profile using the `-DskipITs` property:

```shell script
../mvnw verify -DskipITs
```

#### Skipping unit tests

Alternatively you may want to run only integration tests but not unit tests (especially when changing integration tests).
This can be achieved with

```
../mvnw verify -DskipUnitTests
```

#### Troubleshooting failure to run ITs

If your Integration Test run fails with some generic, non-descriptive error like:

```
[ERROR]   CollectionsResourceIntegrationTest » Runtime java.lang.reflect.InvocationTargetException
```

there are some things you may try:

* Make sure your Docker Engine has enough resources. For example following have been observed:
    * Docker Desktop defaults of 2 gigabytes of memory on Mac are not enough: try at least 4

### Packaging and running the application

The application can be packaged using:
```shell script
../mvnw package
```
It produces the `quarkus-run.jar` file in the `target/quarkus-app/` directory.
Be aware that it’s not an _über-jar_ as the dependencies are copied into the `target/quarkus-app/lib/` directory.

The application is now runnable using `java -jar target/quarkus-app/quarkus-run.jar`.

If you want to build an _über-jar_, execute the following command:
```shell script
../mvnw package -Dquarkus.package.type=uber-jar
```

The application, packaged as an _über-jar_, is now runnable using `java -jar target/*-runner.jar`.

### Creating a native executable

You can create a native executable using: 
```shell script
../mvnw package -Pnative
```

Or, if you don't have GraalVM installed, you can run the native executable build in a container using: 
```shell script
../mvnw package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

You can then execute your native executable with: `./target/sgv2-docsapi-${project.version}-runner`

If you want to learn more about building native executables, please consult [Maven tooling](https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling).

### Creating a docker image

You can create a docker image named `io.stargate/docsapi` using:
```shell script
../mvnw clean package -Dquarkus.container-image.build=true
```

Or, if you want to create a native-runnable docker image named `io.stargate/docsapi-native` using:
```shell script
../mvnw clean package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true -Dquarkus.container-image.build=true
```

If you want to learn more about building container images, please consult [Container images](https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image).

## Quarkus Extensions

This project uses various Quarkus extensions, modules that run on top of a Quarkus application.
You can list, add and remove the extensions using the `quarkus ext` command.

### `quarkus-config-yaml`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/config-yaml)

The application configuration is specified using the YAML format.
Default configuration properties are specified in the [application.yaml](src/main/resources/application.yaml) file.
The YAML configuration also support profile aware files. 
In this case, properties for a specific profile may reside in an `application-{profile}.yaml` named file.

### `quarkus-container-image-docker`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image)

The project uses Docker for building the Container images.
Properties for the docker image building are defined in the [pom.xml](pom.xml).
Note that under the hood, the generated Dockerfiles under [src/main/docker](src/main/docker) are used when building the images.
When updating the Quarkus version, the Dockerfiles must be re-generated.

### `quarkus-grpc`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/grpc)

The gRPC extension provides an easy way for consuming gRPC services, in this case the Stargate Bridge gRPC service.
The [pom.xml](pom.xml) file defines what proto files should be used for generating the stubs:

```xml
<quarkus.generate-code.grpc.scan-for-proto>io.stargate.grpc:grpc-proto</quarkus.generate-code.grpc.scan-for-proto>
```

The clients are configured using the `quarkus.grpc.clients.[client-name]` properties.
In order to pass the request context information to the Bridge, the client should be obtained using the [GrpcClients](../sgv2-quarkus-common/src/main/java/io/stargate/sgv2/api/common/grpc/GrpcClients.java) utility class.

### `quarkus-hibernate-validator`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/validation)

Enables validation of configuration, beans, REST endpoints, etc.

### `quarkus-micrometer-registry-prometheus`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/micrometer)

Enables out-of-the-box metrics collection and the Prometheus exporter.
Metrics are exported at the Prometheus default `/metrics` endpoint.
All non-application endpoints are ignored from the collection.

### `quarkus-opentelemetry-exporter-otlp`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/opentelemetry)

Enables the [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) tracing support.
In order to activate the tracing, you need to supply the OTLP gRPC endpoint using the JVM parameters `-Dquarkus.opentelemetry.tracer.exporter.otlp.enabled=true -Dquarkus.opentelemetry.tracer.exporter.otlp.endpoint=http://localhost:55680`.
The easiest way to locally collect and visualize traces is to use the [jaegertracing/opentelemetry-all-in-one](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/opentelemetry/) docker image with [in-memory](https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/1.21/deployment/#badger---local-storage) storage:

```shell
docker run \
  --rm \
  -e SPAN_STORAGE_TYPE=badger \
  -e BADGER_EPHEMERAL=false \
  -e BADGER_DIRECTORY_VALUE=/badger/data \
  -e BADGER_DIRECTORY_KEY=/badger/key \
  -v badger:/badger \
  -p 55680:55680 \
  -p 16686:16686 \
  jaegertracing/opentelemetry-all-in-one
```

You can then visualize traces using Jaeger UI started on http://localhost:16686.

### `quarkus-resteasy-reactive`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/resteasy-reactive)

The project uses the reactive implementation of the `resteasy` to create HTTP resources.
The JSON serialization is done using the Jackson library (provided by `quarkus-resteasy-reactive-jackson` extension).
The exception handling is done using the dedicated handlers annotated with `org.jboss.resteasy.reactive.server.ServerExceptionMapper`.

By default, the application is served on port `8180`.
The root path for the non-application endpoints (health, Open API, etc.) is `/stargate`.
All configuration options for the HTTP server can be found in https://quarkus.io/guides/all-config#quarkus-vertx-http_quarkus-vertx-http-eclipse-vert.x-http.

### `quarkus-resteasy-reactive`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/resteasy-reactive)

The project uses the reactive implementation of the `resteasy` to create HTTP resources.
The exception handling is done using the dedicated handlers annotated with `org.jboss.resteasy.reactive.server.ServerExceptionMapper`.

By default, the application is served on port `8180`.
The root path for the non-application endpoints (health, Open API, etc.) is `/stargate`.
All configuration options for the HTTP server can be found in https://quarkus.io/guides/all-config#quarkus-vertx-http_quarkus-vertx-http-eclipse-vert.x-http.

### `quarkus-smallrye-health`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/smallrye-health)

The extension setups the health endpoints under `/stargate/health`.

### `quarkus-smallrye-openapi`
[Related guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/openapi-swaggerui)

The OpenAPI definitions are generated and available under `/stargate/openapi` endpoint.
The [StargateDocsApi](src/main/java/io/stargate/sgv2/docsapi/StargateDocsApi.java) class defines the `@OpenAPIDefinition` annotation.
This definition defines the default *SecurityScheme* named `Token`, which expects the header based authentication with the HTTP Header `X-Cassandra-Token`.
The `info` part of the Open API definitions are set using the `quarkus.smallrye-openapi.info-` configuration properties.

The Swagger UI is available under `/swagger-ui` endpoint.
Note that Swagger UI is by default enabled in production profile and can be disabled by setting the `quarkus.swagger-ui.always-include` property to `false`.
